Have you ever wondered
why certain children come
into the world
with very strongly
defined preferences
and even skills?
Well, far from
being a blank canvas
to be programmed by
parents and society,
these babies and children
have come preprogrammed,
according to past life
researcher and family
counselor Carol Bowman.
After her son began
making strange statements
and drawings, Carol felt
something unexplained
was at play, which launched her
into research that has extended
over 20 years and hundreds
of cases of children
revealing their past
life experiences.
Welcome, Carol.
This is one of my
favorite subjects.
I know.
And I know that some
people watching right now
have probably had experiences
with their own children
revealing things that's like,
where did that come from?
Why does my child just attach
to Uncle Joe for no reason,
from the time their
eyes popped open?
And this is
something that you've
gone into in all of
its forms, some of them
painful and some
of them beautiful.
And let's start with what
happened in your own life
with your own children.
I can say my adventure started
on July 4, 1988 when my son
Chase was five years old.
And he was a very
adventuresome child.
He was very fearless.
And on this particular day,
we had had a big party,
and we took the kids to see the
4th of July fireworks display.
And very
uncharacteristically, Chase
became absolutely hysterical as
soon as the loud booming sounds
began with the fireworks.
And I couldn't figure out
what had happened to him,
and I couldn't comfort him.
So I took him home and I
rocked him in a rocking chair,
and eventually he calmed
down after about an hour.
And I thought, well, things
like this happen with kids.
You know, he was
overstimulated, he had
too much sugar or something.
You wouldn't immediately
read something into it.
No, not at all,
because these things
happen with young children.
However, a week later we went
to an indoor swimming pool
for the first time.
It was a municipal pool.
And as soon as anyone
went on the diving board,
it made this big booming,
reverberating sound.
And again, Chase became
absolutely hysterical.
He pulled me out
of the building.
And at this point
my mind was working.
It's the loud noises that are
triggering this fear in him.
And I tried to talk
to him about it,
but he really
couldn't articulate
what was bothering him.
So as fate would have it--
and I believe everything
is orchestrated-- a friend of
mine who had done a past life
regression with me a year
before was staying with us
in Asheville, North Carolina,
where we were living,
and he was doing workshops
on past life regression.
And one afternoon while
Norman Ng, the hypnotherapist,
was staying with us, I
mentioned Chase's phobia
to him because Chase was
due to start kindergarten.
I was afraid that he would
have one of his episodes
and they would call me.
Right and there was potential
for a lot of loud banging
sounds in kindergarten.
Right.
So I just didn't think it
would be a great thing.
So I mentioned Chase's phobia
to Norman, thinking, well,
Norman is a hypnotherapist.
He can give Chase some
posthypnotic suggestions so
the next time he's around
these big, booming sounds he's
not going to get triggered.
So at that point, I had no
idea what was going to happen.
Norman said to Chase,
sit on your mom's lap.
He was about this
big at the time.
Close your eyes and tell
me what you see when you
hear the loud booming sounds.
And immediately Chase started
talking in the first person.
I am a soldier.
I'm confused.
I'm scared.
There's smoke everywhere.
I don't even know
who I'm shooting at.
And at this point, my mind
is trying to figure out
which "Sesame
Street" episode this
was, or "Mr. Rogers"
episode, because we
strictly limited TV watching.
I was a stay at home mother.
He hadn't to school yet,
so I knew pretty much
what he had been exposed to.
And he proceeded with
his story, and he said,
I'm crouching behind a rock,
and I have a gun, a long gun
with a big sword at the end.
And I'm thinking, he
doesn't even own a toy gun.
And he said, I'm
scared, I'm confused,
I don't know who
I'm shooting at.
There's smoke everywhere.
And all of a sudden I'm hit.
And his body kind of
collapsed in my lap.
And Norman said,
then what happens?
And he said, they
take me to this place.
It's a hospital, but it's not
like a regular hospital, which
was strange because Chase
wasn't even born in a hospital,
but we lived near a hospital.
He said, it's this place.
It's just poles with
this covering over it.
And he said, they
put me on a bed,
but it's not a regular bed.
It's like a hard bench.
And he said, they bandage my
wrist, where I was injured,
and they make me go
back into battle.
I don't want to go.
I miss my wife and family.
-Wow.
And that was the moment,
Regina, when the goosebumps--
when you hear your five-year-old
talk about his wife and family.
And I thought, OK.
We must be into some
past life material
because there's no
other explanation.
And he was very sad.
He said, you know, I
miss my wife and family.
I don't even know
what I'm doing here.
I don't want to
kill other people.
So Norman, who had years of
experience working with adults
in past life therapy,
picked up on the fact
that he was in some
past life material.
He was in a story.
So he said to Chase
in very simple terms,
he said, well, we play different
roles in different lifetimes.
We come to earth and we
play different roles.
And sometimes we're soldiers.
And as soldiers, we have to
kill others or we are killed.
But we're just learning
what it is to be human.
We're playing these
roles to learn.
And did it seem that Chase
understood that on some level?
He did, which
really surprised me.
I could tell he was
understanding because his body
suddenly relaxed.
I was holding him.
And I thought,
that's interesting,
you know, these universal
concepts are coming
through to this five-year-old.
And that seemed
to calm him down.
And then Norman said,
well, what happens next?
And Chase said, I'm
walking down a dusty road.
There are chickens on the road.
And I see a big
cannon on a wagon
with big wheels tied down
with ropes, pulled by horses.
So I'm trying to think,
what war is this?
What time period are we in?
And he said, they make
me go behind the cannon.
This is Civil War era, kind of.
Later we learned it was
the American Civil War.
So it was very
vivid in his mind.
The images were very vivid.
And he said, I go
behind the cannon.
They want me to go back.
And at that point he just opened
his eyes and hopped off my lap
and grabbed a cookie and
went to play with his Legos.
And I was sitting there
kind of shell shocked.
And my nine-year-old daughter
Sarah was sitting with us.
And I said to Norman,
what was that?
And he said, well, it's
probably a past life memory.
The sounds of the
4th of July fireworks
probably triggered
the last sound
he heard in that lifetime.
And my daughter, who is
much more astute than I am,
said, mom, that place where
Chase said he was shot
on his wrist, where
they bandaged it,
that's where he has his eczema.
And since Chase
had been a baby, he
had a chronic and severe
eczema on that spot
on his wrist, which had not
responded to food elimination
diets, antibiotic creams.
We tried everything, homeopathy.
And I thought, well,
that's interesting,
some kind of
somatic body memory.
So the upshot of this
15-minute or so recollection
was that his phobia of loud
noises completely went away.
And in fact, shortly
after this he
asked for his first drum set.
Oh, and what's interesting
is that the person,
Dr. Ng, you said, was his name?
Norman Ng, yeah.
Had the wisdom to put
this much larger kind
of spiritual context to it,
and trust him, even as a child,
to innately understand that.
And he was talking
to him as a soul.
Yes, exactly.
And Chase was
responding as a soul, not
his five-year-old self,
which is significant.
And now Chase did some
drawings along the way?
Yeah.
Let me just-- the upshot of
that was that not only did
the phobia go away-- and
this is really important--
but that chronic eczema,
which had not responded
to medical treatment,
went away completely
within a couple of days.
So that really was amazing.
You were getting your
physical evidence,
and now you're thinking,
I need to really start
delving into the research.
So now we have some
wonderful drawings from him.
How did they come about?
And then we'll look
at them and we'll talk
about them as we pull them up.
Well, we were in the middle
of a move from Asheville
to Philadelphia at the time.
So Chase's wild experience kind
of got lost in the shuffle.
Once we had moved
to Philadelphia,
it was about six months
later, we were sitting
and eating breakfast,
and he said that he
remembered being a soldier.
He also talked about
being a black soldier.
And here we have one that wa--
right there, the one on top
is his wrist that he had drawn,
where he had been injured.
Right.
By the age of seven, he was
getting more recollections.
And at this point,
at age seven, he
remembered dying
on the battlefield
and floating above
the battlefield.
So at that point, after he
remembered that, he said,
I want to draw these images
so I never forget them.
So he drew where
his wrist was shot.
And he drew a primitive
drawing of a field hospital,
what he saw as this hospital.
Right.
And this end this
table he was on.
Right, a bench.
The bench he was on.
And I think we have a couple
more images here that also are
from the Civil War,
which was very similar,
right down to a
cannon, one of them
that he had drawn of a cannon.
Now here we're seeing a
field, very primitive hospital
here, during the Civil War.
In fact, an historian
sent those images to me
after he heard Chase's story.
And what Chase
described as these poles
with some material covering
them was fairly accurate.
OK.
And here we go.
Here's a drawing of his where
you have a horse drawing
a cart with a cannon on it.
That's what he described
when he was seven.
And what was interesting,
too, is the images
were consistent over two years,
and the core of the story
remained the same.
And I love the last photo of
the black Civil War soldier
standing next to his cannon.
And I think, wouldn't it
be interesting if that
were Chase in his past life?
-Exactly.
Yeah.
-That would be very weird.
That would be very interested.
But so that experience really
led me into my research,
because I thought it
was the most fascinating
thing I had ever witnessed.
Well, and if you were going
into that area of research,
there was really almost
nowhere else for you
to go but to end up in the lap
of Ian Stevenson's work, right?
Exactly.
Famous, famous past
life researcher.
Right.
And it took me a
little while to find
his work because it was
published by the University
Press of Virginia.
You couldn't find
it in a bookstore,
so I had to do a little
digging and delving.
But when I found his
work I was so ecstatic,
because nobody had been talking
about this in any of the books
I had read.
So I found that Ian Stevenson
was a professor of psychiatry
at UVA Medical School.
And since the
early 1960s, he had
been investigating cases
of children who had
spontaneous past life recall.
In other words, young children,
usually up to about the age
of seven, would
spontaneously talk
about when I was big
before, my other family,
when I died before.
And I felt like I had
hit a vein of gold.
Absolutely.
You know, it was a treasure.
So what I learned from Dr.
Stevenson, from his many books,
which are pretty academic-- he
has many, many case studies--
during the course of his career
he documented about 2,700
of these cases, mostly in Asia.
Because they're more open
to the notion of past lives
and wouldn't necessarily, on
a moral or religious level,
squeeze out that potential.
Exactly.
And apparently, what I found
through my own research later
was that because of the
permissive environment,
where people acknowledge this,
the memories are more detailed.
That makes sense.
Yes.
So the children were
more forthcoming.
So now when you were doing
this research with him,
there was a time at which
you continued your research
into an area that had more
to do with the healing
aspect of this rather than
just the documentation.
Right.
But what I learned from Dr.
Stevenson-- which helped
me make that shift into
healing and a healing model
for children-- he saw the
patterns, the very young age
at which children remembered.
He saw that children, when
he could verify the cases,
in other words, the children
gave enough specific
information that they could
trace their former identities,
he was able to
establish correlation
between the present child
and the past life personality
through similar
behaviors, preferences.
And it was interesting, because
in some of the cases that he
investigated, the present
child who was maybe two, three,
or four years old, when taken
to this other community,
for example, that they
remembered living before,
where they lived before, the
child would lead Dr. Stevenson
and his colleagues to a house.
-OK.
I want to talk about the
little boy in Thailand.
OK, this is a good example.
I think I know what
you're leading up to.
When I read your book
a couple of years ago,
this was one of my
favorite stories.
I've told it to so many people,
partially because I just
found it so amusing,
trying to imagine
the family in that situation.
So please do tell.
Let's talk about him.
It is very amazing.
And it's actually a
typical Stevenson case.
This little boy in
Thailand would always
pretend to be a schoolteacher.
So around age two, he started
saying he was a teacher.
And he also said that he had
a wife, and named the wife,
and he said he had twins,
and named the twins.
And he said he came
from this other village,
and named the village.
And it was just enough
distance away in rural Thailand
that the grandmother who raised
him didn't want to venture
out and approach another family
because she was afraid, even
in Thailand, that they
would think she was crazy
or concocting a story.
But this child insisted that
he was the schoolteacher,
and he said, and I
was shot and I died.
They shot me in
the head when I was
riding to school on my bicycle.
So by the age of three,
this little boy--
his name is Chennai,
I think that's how
you pronounce it--
begged his grandmother
to go to this other town.
And they took a bus.
Once they landed in the town,
he led them to this house.
The door opened.
There was an elderly
couple there.
And he greeted them by name.
And he told-- these
people would have been
the schoolteacher's parents.
And they were so enthralled
with his story and his knowledge
of the man who-- their
son, who had died,
who was a schoolteacher,
who was shot riding
a bicycle on his way
to school-- that they
wanted to do a little test.
So they invited the
grandmother and Chennai back,
I don't know, sometime
later, within a few weeks.
And they sampled a lot of
people in the room as a test.
This sounds familiar,
because this
is how they choose the
new Dalai Lama each time,
through these series of tests.
So Chennai pointed to his
wife and said, that's my wife.
And these two grown
girls, these are my girls.
And he said, and where
are my blue jeans?
Where's my stuff?
Yeah, you think you
go to the afterlife
and, you know, you get all
cosmic and enlightened.
Well, maybe in that
realm, but he's back.
He's back, and he
wants his jeans.
And right before this
schoolteacher had died,
he had purchased a
new pair of jeans,
which I guess was a major
purchase in Thailand,
in rural Thailand.
And what was most
amazing was-- to me,
and this is really important
about Dr. Stevenson's work,
too-- is that he
passed test after test.
He remembered details of
the schoolteacher's life.
And when they examined
him, his head,
they found there
were two birthmarks
where the schoolteacher
had been shot.
And the two birthmarks were
these round pigmentations
that corresponded
exactly to the entry
and exit wounds of the bullet
that killed the schoolteacher.
-Amazing.
-So that was the final test.
I mean, all the
evidence was there.
And the part that I found
amusing about that story
is that he was bossing
everyone around.
He was telling his kids
what to do, his wife.
He's probably, what, about
two feet tall or something.
He's a three-year-old.
But he was taking command
of his family again.
Exactly.
So what Dr. Stevenson found
through these cases, I mean,
some of them are
hysterical, too,
because they're so bizarre.
Even in cultures where they
believe in reincarnation,
some people are reluctant
to share these stories
with other people, fear
that maybe another family
will take their child away.
You know, they have a
lot of fear about it.
Well, how did that
family respond to him?
I think they maintained
a relationship
throughout his life.
That was what I understood.
But I've read so many
cases, I could be wrong.
But in case there was
an ongoing relationship,
and they kind of adopted
him into the family.
Because he was being raised
by his grandmother, you said.
So he probably needed
a little more support.
He missed his family.
And that's common.
So that story points out
a lot of the patterns
that Dr. Stevenson
recognized in the cases.
The young age,
recognition of people
and places from the past.
He had similar behaviors.
He took on the role of the
father again with the family.
And most significantly,
the physical correspondence
with the birthmarks, which
related to fatal wound
or injury in the
past life, which
is another hallmark
of these cases.
And one pattern that Dr.
Stevenson saw that really led
me on my path was that he
found that in 2,700 cases,
approximately 75% of
the kids remembered
dying in a previous life.
50% or so remembered
dying traumatically.
So what does that mean in
terms of turnaround times?
Just a quick interjection.
What was the space time
wise, the length of time
between the time he was
shot-- the little Thai
boy-- between the time he was
shot and then reincarnated?
I think it was probably
about three years.
That was the average
Dr. Stevenson had found,
but it varies widely.
This is one thing
that I have heard,
reading about this subject,
is that when a person dies
of trauma quickly,
unexpectedly, they
often come back rather quickly.
I think that's generally true.
But generally.
But also he found that a lot of
children, of those children who
remembered dying
traumatically, about 35%
had phobias relating
to the way they died.
It make sense.
Just like Chase
had a phobia of loud
booming sounds, which
reminded him of his death
behind the cannon.
It was probably the
last sound he heard.
Well, and when we
speak about it this way,
we can look to all of our lives.
Any phobia we have, if we care
to go that way, f can probably
open ourselves up to
the notion that we have
met our end in this
way, or at least been
seriously traumatized in this
thing we're phobic of now
in another time.
So let's talk about the
healing aspect of it,
because that's where you
really took off in your work.
The information,
the corroboration,
OK, we have all the evidence.
Thousands of cases.
So then what?
-OK.
Well, I was amazed
that in all of the case
studies that I read
by Dr. Stevenson,
he never mentioned healing.
And when I had a chance
to meet him years later,
that was the first
question I asked.
And he said, well,
you can't prove it.
And I said, well, actually, I
have a lot of cases with very
strong evidence that once a
child can express a past life
memory and process a traumatic
death, talk them through it,
assure them they're now
in another lifetime,
in another body,
phobias go away.
They're much more grounded
in this present reality.
It has a healing effect on
them, and physically too, as
in Chase's case with his wrist.
So I had been learning past
life therapy with adults.
I had started learning
before Chase had his memory.
But I never put it
together that children
could have memories, especially
spontaneous memories.
And what I learned from past
life therapy with adults
is that we carry experiences
with us from previous lives.
We're all souls who have
had prior experiences.
We carry talents, abilities,
attributes, wisdom.
But some traumatic deaths
leave a great imprint
on the reincarnating soul.
It's almost the same
as trauma in this life.
When we have trauma
in this life,
the energy gets
frozen in that trauma.
And with that
energy are thoughts,
feelings, physical sensations.
Same thing with
past life trauma.
So when these very young
children are coming in,
they're still on this continuum
of consciousness from past life
into present
through the rebirth.
They still have this
patterning, as you
talked about in the intro.
The patterns are there.
So if they have an
unprocessed traumatic death,
for example, like drowning, they
might come in phobic of water.
They might have memories where
they remember-- they might
express to their parents,
when I was big before I
died when I fell off the boat.
And in this culture, we don't
really put that together.
We dismiss it as
fantasy, and we scratch
our heads over the phobia,
but nothing is resolved.
So from my knowledge of past
life therapy with adults,
and from Stevenson's work saying
this is a natural phenomenon
in young children up until
about the age of seven,
I realized, well,
maybe these are healing
opportunities for the soul.
It was so easy for Chase
to let go of his phobia.
It was so close to the surface.
It just required someone
to ask him about it.
Whereas oftentimes
if you're dealing
with an adult with
past life regression,
the adult has so much built up
around it, defense mechanisms
to learn to have
dealt with the phobia,
or to try to explain it away,
or relegate it to someplace it
shouldn't be, that
you have to break
through layer after layer,
I would assume, right?
Which requires meditation,
hypnosis, different methods
to get to the memory, whereas
with children it's right there.
They want to heal.
The soul wants to
heal to an early age.
So if we can recognize it
for what it is at the time,
and allow the child to
express it, it can heal them
so they don't have to carry
the pattern into adulthood.
So is it possible
that as adults,
because we build up--I mean,
these phobias become stronger,
usually, within the lifetime--
that a little child-- I mean,
granted, they're
not comfortable--
Chase didn't like the loud
sounds and all of that--
but that the little
child can handle
kind of a revisitation
maybe a little
easier than an adult can?
Well, they're doing it
naturally through the phobia.
They're having an emotional
catharsis of some kind.
Whereas adults are really
trying to avoid the pain.
Right.
And it's right there.
And that's why
it's always blocked.
Absolutely.
It's right there.
So we're not doing anything.
We're just recognizing
what's happening in the child
and helping them
work through it.
Well, I mean, this subject
is near and dear to me
because I had the
opportunity about 20,
30 years ago to work
with a really good
regressionist just for kicks.
It was a meditation
group, and I happened
to be fairly easy to guide, or
to float freely, shall we say,
once I was in a relaxed state.
And so I was taken into many,
many different experiences, all
throughout periods of history.
And then my son, when
he was three years old,
during this period of time,
surprised me by one day
telling me of his own past life.
And that was something
out of the mouths
of babes, very similar to
what you had experienced.
And I thought-- I was feeling
regretful about something,
and about a time we'd had
together in the past where
I was not a very fit mother.
I was overwhelmed.
Had way too many kids.
Didn't care anymore.
I was exhausted.
Didn't give him any TLC.
Every mother can
relate to that.
Yeah, I didn't give
him anything of myself.
I didn't have
anything left to give.
His siblings raised him,
and I gave him nothing.
And one night I was feeling
like, just kind of regretful.
And I said, you know,
honey, I love you dearly.
And there was a
time I didn't treat
you as well as I should have.
And I don't ever want you
to go through that again,
or think that I don't love you.
And he's building a little
pillow fort, you know,
and he said, oh, it's OK, mom.
We all do it sometimes.
I did it to you, too.
And it's one of those
where you just stop.
Yes.
When a young child at that age
says something so profound,
it's a good thing to listen.
Well, and because I knew
about the process of it,
I said, would you please tell
me more about what happened?
I mean, how do you know this?
Yeah, that's the best
thing you can say.
Yeah.
And it turns out in his case,
he was at his nursery school.
He said, well, I
was at Busy Bee,
and I was supposed
to be taking a nap.
And I just saw this.
And so he told me details of
where he was which matched--
and he didn't know anything.
He was very protected,
also, like your son.
Waldorf education,
very little TV.
He didn't understand about
other parts of the world,
and he explained what they
looked like, his clothing,
everything that was going
on, and told me the situation
between us, that it occurred
where he wasn't-- he said,
the mom had died
and you were my kid.
And I used to beat
you up because I
missed her and I was sad.
Oh.
Yeah.
And so we had each had a
situation where we had been--
we hadn't treated each
other well in the past
and agreed to come back in this
incarnation to give us, each
other, the best of everything,
which we have managed to do.
And this isn't an
uncommon story.
I'm sure some of
you watching this
have probably had very similar
feelings, or even at least
questions about your
own relationship
of this nature with some of your
kids and some of your feelings.
And we're going to talk about
this more when we come right
back after a little break.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
We are back, and we're going
to pick up that conversation.
And I just wanted to--
the little epilogue
was that once, I
think, both of us
realized-- I didn't find out for
years later, until many years
later, just a few years
ago, I was his daughter
and I looked like his wife.
That's why he was so frustrated.
He was violent with me.
And I had to help
raise the other kids,
he was so angry and
lonely at that loss.
And what it did
was, I had always
wondered, why would
I have not treated
him well in that lifetime?
I know I was tired.
And why did these things happen?
And what happened between us is
that just, hey, things happen.
We're here to balance it.
-Absolutely.
This is just a
time of balancing.
And this is part of the journey
that you're speaking of.
And is this an appropriate
time to go into,
his name is Blake Hawken?
The Blake Hawken case.
-Yeah.
This is-- I was
developing these theories.
I was developing these
models for helping children,
but I had to test it out.
So I got a phone call.
This is pre-internet days.
I had put an ad in "Mothering"
magazine asking for parents
to give me cases if
their children had
ever said anything that
resembled a past life memory.
So Colleen Hawken
called me on the phone
and told me her story
about her son Blake.
Right after Blake
turned three, he
was watching his older brother
getting on the school bus.
He started yelling to his
brother, get out of the street.
And his mother came running,
Colleen, and she said,
is everything all right?
And he put his hand on
his ear, and he said,
man hit me with truck.
This is three-year-old language.
And she said, you
mean in preschool?
A toy truck?
He said no, a big truck.
And it just so happened that
Colleen had seen Brian Weiss
on "Oprah" the day before.
And he made one remark saying
that sometimes children
have past life memories.
So Colleen was primed and ready.
And she listened to Blake.
She said, you mean someone
hit you with a toy truck?
He said no, a big truck.
And she said, what happened?
And he said, well, I
went under the wheels,
and he said, I could look
up and see the wheels.
And then she said,
where was your mommy?
And he said she had gone
bye bye at the store.
And she said, well,
what happened?
And he said, I died.
And Colleen was duly shocked.
But she didn't know
what to do with that.
And so maybe a
couple weeks later,
another big truck went by.
And again Blake brought
up the story of the truck
hitting him and going
under the wheels.
And again Colleen filed it away.
So she didn't think about it
because she had an older child
and a younger child, so
three kids under five,
I think, at the time.
But she noticed that Blake
was getting depressed.
He had been a very happy child,
and he started withdrawing.
And he started complaining
about aches and pains
on the left side of his body.
So she took him to a doctor,
and there was nothing
physiologically wrong with him.
And she thought, well,
Blake is the middle child.
He's just neglected.
It's all my fault. We mothers
take it all on, right?
And she was concerned,
and she would
try to massage the
left side of his body
where he said he had
the aches and pains.
And he would say to her,
I hate you and I love you.
And she was thinking, this
kid might need therapy.
And she was very
busy with her life.
And they went to London to
visit her husband's relatives.
And they were at a
busy intersection,
and Blake was in a stroller.
And all of a sudden he
jumped out of the stroller
into the path of
an oncoming truck.
Fortunately, the truck
driver, the lorry driver,
slammed on his brakes, and
Blake's father pulled him
up by the scruff of his neck.
And of course, the
truck driver yelled
at Colleen and her husband.
But in that moment, Colleen
made the connection,
could this have anything
to do with what Blake told
me about being hit by a truck?
And if so, does that mean he's
destined to repeat something?
So she was extremely upset.
And she called me after
they got back from London.
She had found my ad in
"Mothering" magazine.
And I was listening to her, and
I was explaining that sometimes
children carry these
memories with them,
and there is a repetition
that goes along with this.
Sometimes they act out
something from the past.
And I was listening
to her, thinking,
she can't take him
to a therapist.
What are they going to do?
Right, drug him?
Yeah, right.
And so I was kind of
winging it and flying
by the seat of my
pants, because I
had started developing
these models,
but I hadn't really
tested it out.
So I said to her, look,
he needs to know that what
he experienced was real.
You have to join
him in his reality.
So wait until a time
when he's relaxed,
like right before bedtime.
Give him a little massage,
and say that you know that he
was hit by a truck before.
And tell him that it
was a different mommy,
a different life.
He's now in a new life.
Because as strange as it
sounds, with children that age,
they can't differentiate between
past life and present reality.
It's all a blur.
A past life, to
them, is something
that could have happened
last week, especially when
it gets triggered,
like the sight
of that truck triggered Blake.
So I was telling her, just
reassure him he's now safe.
You're another mommy.
Because she had said that
his mother had gone bye
bye at the store, so maybe
he felt angry with her,
or abandoned.
We don't know.
So a week later, I got
a call from Colleen,
and she was very excited.
She said, I did what you said.
I waited until bedtime.
I gave him a little massage.
I said, Blake, what
happened to you
when you were hit by the
truck was in another life.
And she said, for the first
time in months, his eyes lit up,
and he said, another life?
And she said, yeah, and
that was a different mommy.
He said, a different mommy?
It was like she could feel
this energy in the room change.
She said yeah, and she named all
the people in his present life.
And she said, I'll always
protect you, and we love you.
And she said it was like that.
He changed so quick.
He just completely
changed the energy.
They're so open.
Yeah.
And she said that the next day
he was back to his happy self.
The depression had
completely vanished.
And the aches and pains
that he had complained
about for months vanished.
He just needed to
know that it was over.
He let go.
He let go, and she helped him.
And it was like--
It's a beautiful story.
It was magical.
So that gave me a lot of
fuel to continue and--
Well, to create your
protocols to keep working.
You've dealt with so many people
in the interim, which of course
you've chronicled in these
two books, "Children's
Past Lives" and
"Return from Heaven,"
which are just wonderful books.
I mean, you don't
want to put them down,
because we can't get
enough of these stories.
They're the stuff
movies are made of.
And on that note, I
really like talking
about these case scenarios
because we can relate to them.
It's not just theoretical.
We can picture them.
They're real.
So I would like to talk about
the really famous one now,
and in fact, a motion picture
is being made, I understand,
possibly?
-As far as I know, yes.
They're working on the script.
James Leininger.
And some people, if you've
been into this subject,
are curious about.
You may have heard
something about it
in little news
clips of the past.
Is this the one?
Yeah, and actually he's been
on some major TV shows, too.
Yeah, he has.
We did an "ABC Primetime."
Let's talk about him
and what happened.
And we have some more
great visuals on this one.
Yeah, there's a
prelude to this story,
too, because I went on
a field investigation
with Dr. Stevenson in Chicago,
investigating one of my cases.
That's the basis
for the second book
on same family reincarnation.
And we were saying, why aren't
there great American cases
that can be verified?
And this was just, like,
it was the year 2000.
And I said, well, just
wait, because the internet,
I bet we're going to
find some great cases,
because people had no way
of contacting Dr. Stevenson
or me except through letters.
So I got an email
from this mother
in Louisiana, Andrea Leininger.
I think it was in 2001, 2002.
And she said that her son
had just turned two, James.
And he was having nightmares,
severe nightmares,
five times a week.
He would wake up screaming.
They couldn't calm him down.
Sometimes he would talk about, I
can't get out, I can't get out,
and he would thrash and kick.
And it was driving
them crazy because they
weren't getting any sleep.
Andrea's mother found
my book and said,
did you ever consider
the possibility
that this could be a past life?
So she started talking
to him, acknowledging it.
You know, what happened?
And he said, I'm in plane.
Plane's on fire.
Little man can't get out.
And it was really interesting,
because he was also obsessed
with anything that had
to do with airplanes,
especially World
War II airplanes.
He knew everything about them.
-And he was still, what, three?
-Two.
Two.
OK.
All right.
-Two, two and 1/2.
This went on for months.
So probably about
the age of three,
she started asking
the questions.
She felt comfortable
doing it knowing that this
is not anything that unusual.
And she would ask
him questions like,
do you remember, you're
flying your plane?
He would always say,
I flew a Corsair.
They don't know
what a Corsair was.
And part of this drama was
that her husband Bruce was kind
of very Christian, didn't
believe in reincarnation,
didn't want to believe
in reincarnation.
And any time James
would say anything,
he would go to the internet
to try to disprove it.
So they found out
the Corsair was
the type of airplane that was
flown off of aircraft carriers.
So Andrea would
say, well, do you
remember anything about that?
And he would say, yeah.
He said we took off a
ship, a boat, a big boat.
She said, do you
remember the name?
And he said Natoma.
And he would always draw,
in his child drawings,
he would always draw pictures
of planes being shot down.
He was obsessed with that, too.
-Here's one here.
We see that it's going down.
It's in bright red, and he
writes, "To Dad from James."
Right.
So this went on for
a few years, too.
And Andrea would say,
well, what was your name?
And he would say James.
So you know, it was
one point for Bruce.
You know, he must
be making this up.
But then he would say
things out of the blue.
They would be driving
in the car and he'd say,
you know, my plane would
always get flat tires
when it landed on the boat.
And he knew all kinds of
terminology about airplanes.
He knew everything
about airplanes.
And any normal parent would
suspect something here.
But Bruce was adamant that
reincarnation doesn't exist.
He had the obsession
with airplanes.
He knew the terminology.
He knew everything.
And finally they asked
him, what was your name?
He said James.
I said that, he dismissed that.
But then Andrea said, do you
remember any of your friends?
And he said, yes.
Jack Larson.
So Bruce started doing this very
deep research on the internet
and found out there was an
aircraft carrier in World War
II, the Natoma Bay.
And he actually was able to
access the logs to that ship
and found out there
was a Jack Larson.
But that didn't even tip
him into belief until--
He was a hard nut.
He was hard core.
He was really hard core.
One day Bruce, the father,
ordered a book on World War II,
and he was thumbing through it.
And little James was
standing next to him.
And there was an aerial
view of Iwo Jima.
And little James looked
at the photo and he said,
that's where my plane went down.
So that's the goose
bumps moment for Bruce,
where he goes-- he said his
skepticism just melted away.
So they were actually
able to trace
who he was through the Survivors
of the Natoma Bay Association.
And we have a couple pictures
of him as-- who he was was?
His name in his former
life was James Houston
Jr., which would explain--
he always signed his drawings
James III.
So he was the third James,
but a different last name.
There he is in his-- I
don't know if it's a Corsair,
but the cockpit of his plane.
It is a Corsair.
It's a Corsair he's in.
OK.
Well, what happened was
they found out who he was.
They found out he had
a surviving sister
in California who was elderly.
And they had to prepare
her, because they were going
national on TV with the story.
So they tracked her
down, told her the story.
And fortunately she was
receptive and sent them
photographs of her
brother, the picture of him
in front of his Corsair.
He was very proud of
that, because that
was an elite squad.
And she sent photos of
him when he was young.
These photos are great.
We have them, the side by sides.
It's very amazing.
Talk about this whole notion
of facial architecture,
of people-- you can see here.
We have a few photos.
Here's one where you
can see the structure
of their face, their expression,
the two Jameses' smiles, even.
The chin.
Yeah, the chin.
And this is not always
the case, but in some cases
even the facial
architecture carries over.
Oh, yeah.
This is really interesting,
because this little boy
somehow not only--
look at this one here.
They just-- you can see the very
strong similarities in the two.
And the kind of spirit
that comes through them
that's very similar as well.
So they have kind of
a similar facial form.
They also have in this
one-- here we go again.
And they also
brought through-- he
brought through the same name.
-He did.
Which is really interesting.
That is interesting.
And the beauty of-- well, there
are many beautiful aspects
of this case.
One of them is that the sister
of James Houston, Ann Baron,
could corroborate all the things
that little James remembered
about the family life.
Yes, and in fact he ended
up meeting his sister,
who was elderly now.
And he was still quite small.
Look at them.
Look at the look on his face.
That is the sweetest picture.
That is-- and look at her.
I mean, can you imagine?
It gives you chills, to
think that her brother,
who she probably missed from all
those years before, was back.
She could feel his spirit.
She could see his eyes.
And you can see how
happy the two of them
are to be together there.
It's just an amazing photograph.
-It is.
And what's amazing
about this story,
too, is that we did this
wonderful piece on "ABC Prime
Time," and a Japanese
film crew saw the story,
and flew the Leininger family
to Japan to the site where James
Houston's plane went down.
And they did a memorial service.
And Andrea told me about it.
She said everyone was
in tears on the boat.
They were out in a boat.
And she said her son threw
a bouquet into the water,
and he saluted, and
he said-- chokes
me up-- I'll never forget you.
And it was really interesting.
It was like closure for
him, because afterwards,
he started drawing
these very happy
scenes of water and boats.
And you have those
drawings, too.
Yeah.
But also, he saw his
friend Jack, right?
Yes.
He went to a reunion
where he met his sister,
and he actually met Jack Larson.
And they were like old buddies.
There they are.
He and his old military buddy,
his old Air Force buddy Jack,
back together again.
This is an extraordinary
story on so many levels,
about the desire of
this soul to come
back and heal this situation
through this family, really.
And how all of this corroborated
for parents all over the world
to be able to turn to and
point to as an example
of this particular
situation, in case
this is something
that they're curious
about in their own lives.
I mean, it's just like
a classic, textbook,
beautiful case example.
-Exactly.
But he did have closure, and you
can see it through his artwork.
It's really beautiful.
It's an intact plane flying
through a field of flowers.
So it's really lovely.
And what was especially
important about this case
is a lot of the great
cases that Dr. Stevenson
had were in Asian cultures.
So Americans or Westerners
could write off these cases,
well, they believe
in that stuff,
so of course they're
going to find the cases.
This is the one, the textbook
one you were looking for.
Exactly.
Where the father did not
want to believe in it,
but the evidence was
completely overwhelming.
And yeah, I hope they
do make the movie.
They're in the
process of doing it.
Fabulous.
Yeah, I want to be
there on opening night.
What about this
notion of carrying
forward not just facial
characteristics and all,
but names?
Is this something that is--
I think it happens
sometimes, and it's-- I think,
unconsciously, the parents are
triggered to give the name.
But it's not--
Well, the soul
could be prompting it
from the other side.
Absolutely, through dreams.
Actually, I had an
experience of exactly that,
because sometimes it's easy
for me to tap into other things
because I've been working
with myself in meditation
and in these realms for awhile.
And when my sister's baby
was about to be born,
the entity that was
going to be the baby
came and told me her name.
Well, my sister had
said, we're just
starting to think about names.
And I called her
the next morning
and said, before
you choose, can I
just share with you what I
happened to hear from, I think,
your child?
And she said,
well, we've already
chosen a name,
Alexander or Alexandra,
depending on if it's
a boy or a girl.
That's the exact name
that I was given.
In the same night that being
went to her parents and to me,
and was very clear and strong
that was to be her name.
I have a whole chapter
on that very phenomenon
in my second book,
"Return from Heaven."
So it's important that
we're even open and intuitive
in the naming process.
-Right.
Which also says that these
souls who are coming into us
are aware of us.
Choice may not be
the correct word,
or the best word to describe
it, but there's a draw,
either through love,
through familiarity,
through unfinished business--
Through DNA.
Where they're coming, whatever.
Yes.
So they are trying to
communicate with us before they
come in, and they are
definitely observing us,
because consciousness
doesn't die.
I mean, these are souls.
They're aware of who we are.
They are aware of the
plan for this life.
So they're coming in,
and sometimes they
do, through a dream,
let us know their names.
It's very important that I
think we remain alert to this,
anyone who is expecting
a child or a grandchild,
be alert to this whole period
of time that's happening
before the birth, of
welcoming this being
and being open and receptive
to any kinds of impulses
or information they may want
to assist you in knowing
prior to their birth.
Right, because one of the
things that these memories
teach us, or the expression
of these memories,
is that we are souls.
We come in with these
other experiences,
and it really can
help us as parents
to understand our children
on a deep, deep, deep level.
And our connections to
them, too, because usually,
if you have a very strong bond
with someone in this life,
it's not new.
And I just want to mention,
if we have enough time,
that I did write a book
about reincarnation
in the same family because
it's such a common phenomenon,
that someone in the
family can die--
say your grandmother
dies, and you're
very attached to her-- she can
come back as your own child.
And it can happen in
less than nine months.
And what prompted
me to write the book
was the story of
another Chicago mother.
I don't know what's
going on in Chicago
with these past life memories.
But they're all over the place.
Please share this, because
this is a very important topic,
I feel.
-It is.
And people need to
know it can happen,
because I think it's so common.
This mother, Kathy Luke,
she was a teenage mother.
Her two-year-old developed
neuroblastoma and had tumors
all over his body,
but most prominently,
one behind his left eye
which caused blindness
at the end of his life.
He had an IV
inserted on his neck.
They were trying to sustain
him in the hospital,
and he had a big tumor
behind his right ear
that had been biopsied.
And he ended up dying.
And Kathy was young.
She met a wonderful
man, married,
had a son, a daughter,
and then a third child
born by C-section.
She named this new baby--
blanking on it-- Chad.
And when he was
born, the doctors
came into the room-- he was
born by C-section-- and said,
we have bad news.
It looks like he's
blind in his left eye.
And she said, bring me
my baby, and they did.
And the first
thing that she saw,
it looked like he had
a scar on his neck
where the IV had been on
her other child, James.
His name was James.
And it looked like
he had a large tumor
behind his right ear.
And she said rhetorically,
how can this be?
And the doctor said,
it's just a birthmark
and a functional cyst.
It will go away.
But she held this baby
for the first time
and she said, she had had two
other children after James,
and none of them
had felt like this.
And she knew it
was the same soul.
So as time went on,
she kept it to herself
because she came from a very
strict religious background.
And by the age of three or four,
Chad was saying specific things
about James's life, asking
for toys that James had had,
which they didn't
have, and talking
about the apartment
they had lived in,
which he had never seen.
So these stories are real.
It ended up healing Kathy from
the most traumatic wound we
can experience, losing a child.
What happened with the
little boy and his health,
his physical health?
Did he obviously continue
growing and lives to this day?
He was fine?
Oh, yeah.
I check in occasionally.
That was a long time ago, so
he's practically-- I guess he's
about in his late teens now.
Oh, good.
OK.
That's a wonderful happy ending.
His eye never fully recovered.
It was a carry-over.
But that story prompted me
to write the second book,
because to me that's a miracle.
And the name of
that book, again, is?
"Return from Heaven."
Oh, that's the "Return
from Heaven" book.
-The blue book.
-Right, the blue book.
These cases are common.
When I give lectures or
workshops, there are always
people in the room
who go, oh my gosh,
you know, I believe
that my daughter
is my sister who died in a
car accident 20 years ago,
or whatever.
Any permutation.
You hear this.
This is not uncommon.
-No.
But the thing that is
most surprising to people
is, somehow they
got in their minds
that there is this
interval between lives
that's 40 years or 100 years.
It can be less than nine months.
It can be, because once the
beings, or the body, the fetus
starts developing,
I mean, an agreement
between the soul and
that particular body
can be made at a later point.
Because we're not a
fully incarnate anyway.
There's always a part of
us in this other dimension.
So it can be just
literally months.
And I've read some other--
-Days.
Days.
Hours.
It's true.
I've read some
extraordinary stories
of this kind in other
works as well as yours.
But again, I mean, a lot
of this-- "Children's Past
Lives" and "Return from Heaven."
A lot of these stories
embedded in here
are so confirming
and heartwarming.
And we only have a
few minutes left.
So I just want to ask you,
if someone is thinking,
oh my gosh, I've always
wondered about this trait
in my child, grandchild, my
sister, my niece or nephew.
How do they get going
on this process?
Well, you have to catch them
when the children are young,
while it's happening, while it's
spontaneous, because the window
does close by the age of seven.
So it requires
different techniques
to get into that area
of the unconscious.
But if a young child, a
two- or three-year-old,
is talking about
it, pay attention.
Do what you did.
Ask open-ended questions.
Tell me about that.
What happened?
And if you feel
they're troubled,
kind of talk them through
it and assure them they're
now safe in a new body.
But you have protocols
that you've developed now,
like you talked about
with this one woman.
Is that available in
your books or a website?
In the book.
And I do have a forum,
reincarnationforum.com.
And I have a team of
moderators who are
fabulous, well-versed in this.
And people can post anonymously.
They post their stories,
they can get help.
And in extreme cases, if
they feel they need me,
the moderators
alert me, and I'll
communicate with the
parent to help the child.
Parents are in the best position
to help their own children,
as the memories are
coming up spontaneously.
And there's a fabulous case on
there, too, about 9/11 fireman.
I was just going to say, we
only have about two minutes
left.
Can you squash it
into two minutes?
I'll try.
Little boy in
California was born,
I think it was 2003, 2004.
He declared he was a fireman,
obsessed with firefighting,
knew all the terminology.
And he saw an image in
a "Curious George" book
of the Twin Towers, and
he wanted to know why
the bad guys knocked them down.
And he was very upset
that he couldn't get
the people out of the building.
And the mother got more
and more information.
She found out the number of
the firetruck, the number
the firehouse from the child.
She was able to
trace his identity.
But she will not reveal
it because she doesn't
know what to do with this.
And we're going back and
forth as to whether she
should approach the family.
She knows where they
are and who they are.
So over time she'll work
her way through this.
And the family will
work their way.
And I can understand how
delicate that could be.
It's such a raw
loss at this point.
It's so recent.
And there's so much
publicity around it.
So for parents listening
now that want to contact you,
what's your website if they
want to check onto the forum?
Carolbowman.com.
You can get to the forum.
You have to register,
but it's free.
We just have to--
Carolbowman.com.
So if you have any
interest in this,
and anything that's piquing
your own curiosity on it,
carolbowman.com.
Bowman
So I want to thank you so much.
This is a really good
message here, no matter what
our beliefs in reincarnation,
that we should be listening
much more closely to
our little children,
because they may be telling us
a story about what they're here
to do, what they're
here to learn,
or even what they're
here to heal.
Meanwhile, if you enjoyed
this conversation,
you might also want to take
a look at my conversation
with Paul Von Ward
here on Gaiam TV.
Until next time, thank you
so much for joining us.